`:is()` pseudo class function (#130)
csstools/postcss-plugins: plugins/postcss-is-pseudo/README.md

	order: 1;
}
button:focus {
	order: 1;
}
```

## Usage

Add [PostCSS Is Pseudo] to your project:

```bash
npm install @csstools/postcss-is-pseudo --save-dev
```

Use [PostCSS Is Pseudo] as a [PostCSS] plugin:

```js
import postcss from 'postcss';
import postcssIsPseudo from '@csstools/postcss-is-pseudo';

postcss([
  postcssIsPseudo(/* pluginOptions */)
]).process(YOUR_CSS /*, processOptions */);
```

[PostCSS Is Pseudo] runs in all Node environments, with special instructions for:

| [Node](INSTALL.md#node) | [Webpack](INSTALL.md#webpack) | [Create React App](INSTALL.md#create-react-app) | [Gulp](INSTALL.md#gulp) | [Grunt](INSTALL.md#grunt) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

## Options

### preserve

The `preserve` option determines whether the original notation
is preserved. By default, it is not preserved.

```js
postcss([
  postcssIsPseudo({ preserve: true })
]).process(YOUR_CSS /*, processOptions */);
```

```css
:is(input, button):is(:hover, :focus) {
	order: 1;
}
```

Becomes :

```css
input:hover {
	order: 1;
}
input:focus {
	order: 1;
}
button:hover {
	order: 1;
}
button:focus {
	order: 1;
}
:is(input, button):is(:hover, :focus) {
	order: 1;
}
```

### doesNotExistName

> The `doesNotExistName` option allows you to change to selector used for `:not()` selectors.

Reviewer: Let's add a note here that hints that this is needed and will be explained below (and potentially link to the shortcomings)

Author: Linked to the specificity docs and renamed to option to `specificityMatchingName`
It is still not fully clear from the name alone but better than `doesNotExistName`

The default value is `does-not-exist`.
If this is an actual class, id or tag name in your code, you will need to set a different option here.

See how `:not` is used to modify specificity.

```js
postcss([
  postcssIsPseudo({ doesNotExistName: 'something-random' })
]).process(YOUR_CSS /*, processOptions */);
```

```css
:is(.button, button):hover {
	order: 7;
}
```

Becomes :

```css
.button:hover {
	order: 7;
}

button:not(.something-random):hover {
	order: 7;
}
```

### oncomplex

Do not transform complex selectors in `:is` pseudo classes.

```js
postcss([
  postcssIsPseudo({ oncomplex: 'skip' })
]).process(YOUR_CSS /*, processOptions */);
```

Warn on complex selectors in `:is` pseudo classes.

```js
postcss([
  postcssIsPseudo({ oncomplex: 'warning' })
]).process(YOUR_CSS /*, processOptions */);
```

## ⚠️ Known shortcomings

### Specificity

`:is` takes the specificity of the most specific list item.
We can increase specificity with `:not` selectors, but we can't decrease it.

> Converted selectors are ensure to have the same specificity as `:is` for the most important bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Converted selectors are ensured to have the same specificity as `:is` for the most important bit.
```

Less important bits can have higher specificity that `:is`.

Before :

specificity: `[0, 2, 0]`

```css
:is(:hover, :focus):is(.button, button) {
	order: 7;
}
```

After :

```css
/* specificity: [0, 2, 0] */
.button:hover {
	order: 7;
}

/* specificity: [0, 2, 1] */
/* last bit is higher than it should be, but middle bit matches */
button:not(.does-not-exist):hover {
	order: 7;
}

/* specificity: [0, 2, 0] */
.button:focus {
	order: 7;
}

/* specificity: [0, 2, 1] */
/* last bit is higher than it should be, but middle bit matches */
button:not(.does-not-exist):focus {
	order: 7;
}
```

### Complex selectors

Before :

```css
:is(.alpha > .beta) ~ :is(:focus > .beta) {
	order: 2;
}
```

After :

```css
.alpha > .beta ~ :focus > .beta {
	order: 2;
}
```

_this is a different selector than expected as `.beta ~ :focus` matches `.beta` followed by `:focus`._<br>
_avoid these cases._<br>
_writing the selector without `:is()` is advised here_

```css
/* without is */
.alpha:focus > .beta ~ .beta {
	order: 2;
}
```

If you have a specific pattern you can open an issue to discuss it.

> We can detect and transform some case but can't generalize into a single solution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can detect and transform some cases but can't generalize them into a single solution that tackles all of them. 
```
